So an important element of creating both highly available
and fault‑tolerant solutions on AWS is how we monitor the
solutions that we deploy.
And here, we're really talking about two different solutions.
The first is Amazon CloudWatch,
and this is what allows us to capture metrics and logs,
in this case from our SageMaker instances.
But you'll see that CloudWatch works with many different services on AWS.
And then on the other side, we have AWS CloudTrail,
which creates an audit trail for actions that are taken against SageMaker.
But just like with CloudWatch,
this also integrates with other services on the AWS platform.
So let's first look at the metrics that we capture with Amazon CloudWatch.
So first,
it's important to note that it collects metrics from our SageMaker instances,
and this includes things like our training jobs,
for example, as well as our hosted endpoints.
Now in this case, metrics are going to be captured in a 1‑minute frequency.
So we get a lot of updates about our instances and how they're performing.
Now this metric data is going to be stored within the service for 15 months.
However, you can only look at 2 weeks within the console.
But you can utilize the CLI and the SDK to get access to the full 15 months
of data Now another important thing to note about CloudWatch metrics is
that you can configure alarms based on metrics.
So if something isn't performing as it should be,
you don't have to wait until you go in and check and find that out.
The service can be proactive in letting you know that
something isn't performing as it should be.
Now let's use an endpoint example.
So here, we're going to be looking at metrics for a SageMaker endpoint.
So we could, for example, have Invocation4XXErrors.
We could also have Invocation5XXErrors.
We can have the total number of invocations,
invocations per instance, and we've actually already talked about this metric.
This is what we use with scaling.
We also could have ModelLatency and OverheadLatency.
Now I've included a note here that there are
dimensions provided on these metrics, and those are EndpointName and VariantName.
So if you're trying to determine the number of 500 errors that
happen for a specific production variant,
you can go into CloudWatch and get that data.
If you're trying to find that out for time within the last 2 weeks,
you can go into the console and get that.
You can even save that information in a dashboard that
you can go back and visit later.
Or you can configure an alarm based on that metric so that it can send you a
notification when you have a threshold that is met Now next,
we have Amazon CloudWatch Logs,
which is another aspect to the CloudWatch services.
And what this does is it's going to collect the standard output and
standard error output for your SageMaker instances.
And this includes your training jobs,
as well as your endpoints and your notebook instances and any
batch transform jobs that you've executed.
So log events are grouped into log streams,
and those streams are grouped in to overall log groups.
And within a log group, you can set settings like,
for example, retention settings.
Now we mentioned that CloudWatch metrics are available for up to 15 months.
However, with CloudWatch Logs,
you get to configure how long you want those logs to stay around.
And you will pay some for the amount of storage
that those logs actually take up.
Let's look at an example log configuration.
So here, we have a log group for a SageMaker endpoint,
and so it's going to follow this standard structure of /aws/sagemaker/Endpoints,
and then whatever name you give that endpoint.
Now within that,
there will be log streams for each production variant and then for
each instance that uses a production variant.
So you'll see that'll follow the naming structure of the
production variant name slash and then the instance‑id.
So if we look here, here is a screenshot from my CloudWatch logs,
specifically for the demo that we set up in a previous module.
And here, you can see that we have an overall log group,
and this has the DEMO‑XGBoostEndpoint and then the date string
that I've included after thatf as the log group, and then the
specific streams are included.
And first, we can see here that we have Model2, which is a production
variant, and then we can see an instance ID for a specific instance
that was running that particular model.
We can see that we also have Model1, and then we have the AllTraffic,
and that was before we had actually added in the different production variants.
Now let's talk next about AWS CloudTrail. And this is different from
CloudWatch because, in this case, it's more about providing an audit trail
because it captures actions from the SageMaker API,
and this could be from users.
So if you want to know what user went in and edited an endpoint,
you could find that out.
Also, roles and other AWS Services that have taken
actions on your behalf against SageMaker.
Now once it is configured, and it's not configured by default,
but it will collect all of this data into Amazon S3.
And since this data is stored in Amazon S3,
things like retention can be configured by you.
You can make it work how you want.
You can even use S3 lifecycle rules to potentially send this
out to Glacier or Glacier Deep Archive.
And this does provide that audit trail that really
should be in place for any AWS service.
And if you're interested in viewing this information, you can actually go in and query this data using AWS Athena.